
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
Quick notes (main differences with J. Chave comments) - 16 Feb 2025 
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>

Rather than focusing too much on the fact that CSDMs may be less reliable and more pessimistic than PEMs (which is not a new result and is already known), it would be better to focus on the importance of accepting a greater diversity of models and figuring out how to safeguard forests by gaining a better understanding of uncertainties (which seems more novel), i.e., merging across biological and climatological components (uncertainty budget framework).

Given this, it seems appropriate to work on a simplified version of Figure 4 (23) to clarify the novelty of our approach ("merging across biological and climatological")
Something like in my PhD defense (but better!)

Considering species in the uncertainty framework seems also necessary given that the extent of knowledge and available data on different species varies. 
It seems appropriate to keep both the ANOVA across species and the ANOVAs within species (currently the case).

<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
Mail from Lizzie - 15 Feb 2025 
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>

Potential abstract ...
Forests play a major role in mitigating climate change, but increasing
threats to forests from climate change have heightened the importance of
managing these systems. Robust forecasts of forest composition with
increasing climate change are critical to this aim, but are currently
highly variable. To help guide management in the face of this
variability and understand where we can most rapidly reduce uncertainty
through improved models, we compare over XX ecological models and
climate scenarios in forecasts for forests across Europe. Our approach
considers a gradient of more mechanistic (`process-based') to
correlative models of species distributions to find that uncertainty in
ecological models can drive more variation than vastly different climate
scenarios (e.g., SSP2 vs. SSP5), but also areas with relatively
consistent projections [give overview of these and say that this could
reduce uncertainty in how to manage for these areas]. [Maybe something
on using existing range data leads to more pessimistic forecasts?] Our
results highlight a new way to approach ecological forecasting that
better identifies areas of higher certainty and, conversely, the areas
where managers will need more diversified approaches and where more
ecological study may be most useful.

XX would be model types x species x model members for GCMs I think ...
(do you need a name for model types x species x GCMs?)



Potential outline:

Intro:
1. Basically first two paragraphs you have combined (we need forests to
store C, and they are doing poorly) ending on the need for better
guidance of forest management
2. This is hard because we have a lot of biological models and they give
different answers, and for management we need to layer on the future
climate models ...
     - Go into briefly the correlative versus process models -- they
differ  but we're not sure which is best
     - Given we don't have one great approach to build to (and we have
run out of time), so maybe we move on and accept the diversity
     - Transition to something explaining the layers of models we need
to consider to capture climate to biology
3. Back to what we need to do with the models for forest management
     - Here you might touch on what we could do with this, get in some
of the stuff I highlighted in the discussion that you need to foreshadow
for readers.

Mail from Lizzie - 15 Feb 2025 
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>

Potential abstract ...
Forests play a major role in mitigating climate change, but increasing
threats to forests from climate change have heightened the importance of
managing these systems. Robust forecasts of forest composition with
increasing climate change are critical to this aim, but are currently
highly variable. To help guide management in the face of this
variability and understand where we can most rapidly reduce uncertainty
through improved models, we compare over XX ecological models and
climate scenarios in forecasts for forests across Europe. Our approach
considers a gradient of more mechanistic (`process-based') to
correlative models of species distributions to find that uncertainty in
ecological models can drive more variation than vastly different climate
scenarios (e.g., SSP2 vs. SSP5), but also areas with relatively
consistent projections [give overview of these and say that this could
reduce uncertainty in how to manage for these areas]. [Maybe something
on using existing range data leads to more pessimistic forecasts?] Our
results highlight a new way to approach ecological forecasting that
better identifies areas of higher certainty and, conversely, the areas
where managers will need more diversified approaches and where more
ecological study may be most useful.

XX would be model types x species x model members for GCMs I think ...
(do you need a name for model types x species x GCMs?)



Potential outline:

Intro:
1. Basically first two paragraphs you have combined (we need forests to
store C, and they are doing poorly) ending on the need for better
guidance of forest management
2. This is hard because we have a lot of biological models and they give
different answers, and for management we need to layer on the future
climate models ...
     - Go into briefly the correlative versus process models -- they
differ  but we're not sure which is best
     - Given we don't have one great approach to build to (and we have
run out of time), so maybe we move on and accept the diversity
     - Transition to something explaining the layers of models we need
to consider to capture climate to biology
3. Back to what we need to do with the models for forest management
     - Here you might touch on what we could do with this, get in some
of the stuff I highlighted in the discussion that you need to foreshadow
for readers.

